Friendship is you get what you give, you, get what you give.
And if you are there for people,
you are going to feel so good about having done that.
And then the, the,
the reciprocation effect,
which you'd probably know very well is so great in the world.
That any time you're kind to people, you build this incredible bond.
And then what, what are we at the end of the day, Lex,
besides a series of memories with the people we love,
that's all it is. It's just a series of memories and moments.
It's just moments you ever see blade runner. Yes, of course.
You remember what Rutger Hauer says at the end,
all of these memories gone like tears in the rain. I mean, that's our existence.
It just all goes away. At some point, it's just these drops of rain. Each,
each of those memories, just like one snowflake or one drop of rain.
And they're all lost at some point, but they're here now.
And that's why we have to be there for each other.
That's why I feel like what I do is so important in this world and I get such
great meaning out of it, just being a friend, just having these conversations,
what you're doing on your podcast,
just talking to intelligent people and spreading the word and the disciple,
the gospel of what they're saying and amplifying it. You're inspiring.
So many people, every podcast, you get 500,000 people,
a million people watch these videos and there's some kid in Sri Lanka or some
little girl in Afghanistan. Who's going to stumble upon this on YouTube.
And they're going to change the world in the next century because it's not just
about America, our stories almost over, right?
Like we were the story of the last two or 300 years. I hope it keeps going,
but there's all these other places in the world, San Paulo and Africa,
where people now have access to these videos and somebody will
have this video and go, Elon did it. Oh, and that guy,
Jason was his friend and Oh, and then Lex, does those interviews with the,
Oh yeah. I could do it too.
Little magical moment of love amidst the suffering with Elon because you've
talked about it. It'll have these ripple effects.
It's fascinating to think about what's to come in new entrepreneurs,
being born new,
more love being put out there in a more support through these rough
times when your people are trying to create new things. I mean, that's a,
that's a beautiful thing. That's a beautiful, I,
I'm glad you think of friendship in this way.
I'm deeply grateful that you're loyal.
Every time you invest you are. Here's the thing. Cost question,
nothing to make this investment either the,
the amount of time it takes to be bitter or angry, uh, sitting at home,
uh, to be disappointed. You,
you could just channel that same amount of energy into being loyal, loving kind,
and there for people. It just only takes the intention, right?
The water is going to those emotions are going to flow, right?
Like Sam would always tell me when I was struggling in my life.
And I talked to him, he'd say, you know, Jason, your brain is spewing.
All of these ideas. Imagine you're standing,
sitting by a river and the river is all your ideas.
You are not a slave to any one of these ideas to just whipping by like each of
those little waves in the river,
you can pick one of those ideas out and look at it and examine it and either
keep it or throw it back in the river and let it go. And I was like, wow, Sam,
that was like my entire friendship with Sam Harris.
That was like the one moment where I was just like, Oh my God, all my life.
I've wondered about all these thoughts in my head, insecurities, you know,
imposter syndrome. Like I didn't go to MIT. You know,
I'm not the smartest guy, but somehow I made a career writing,
a little 50 K checks and now, you know, $3 million checks, but whatever,
you know,
little checks and being a journalist and doing this little podcast and it's
added, it's ended up to something. And I kind of, I'm proud of it. I'm 50.
And I'm kind of proud of what I did. And I,
and I wake up every morning and I've retired. I say, kinda like what I do.
I kinda like having the conversation and writing the check and then being on
somebody's team. And I got offered to be in these giant mega funds.
And they said, Jason, you're an idiot. You invest in 60 companies a year,
you know, 500 K at a time, you put $30 million a year to work,
come work with us, write one $50 million check.
And then you can go to Aspen and Cabo and Coachella and not
work, but why are you doing all this work?
It's like pull the $50 million check is like, it's like a formality.
It's just like being an ATM. Like the companies are already huge by that time.
I really want to meet the two people with the idea.
I want to meet them in year one. I want to meet them in day zero.
I want to be the guy who wrote the first, second or third check.
I want a guy with 3000 check the last check. It's boring.
And make that basic human connection and also be there and be with me through
the rough times, be with them with that first. I mean the first early successes,
I mean, that's a beautiful.
So great when they, when, when,
when a founder and the team get product market fit and you just know
it's going to work. Oh man, Lex it's when,
when calm would email me and they'd say we hadn't, you know,
the company has been growing and we're not going to go out of business,
but we added some sleep stuff. And then we added this other fee function and,
uh, we have a streak now and, uh,
we grew 10 X in the less we know, three months. And, uh,
we're good. You know, I was like, Oh, that's nice. That's real nice. It's like,
it's a nice feeling when you will, because so many of them die.
We talked about that J curve early. Imagine it's like, um,
it's like all these baby turtles going out to the ocean and the seagulls are
ripping them to shreds. And then their sharks are eating them.
But then like a couple of the turtles make it.
And they become wise old hundred year old turtles, you know? And you're like,
yep. I remember when you catched. And like, all of your brothers and sisters.
Were ripped to shreds by the seagulls that you made.
It into the water, and then you made it out to the deep water.
I think there's no better way to end it.
The talk of the cruelty of life that's suffering that is life and the love.
Miss the suffering. Jason. Absolutely. I've been a fan of yours for a long time.
You're one of the most special people in Silicon Valley.
And maybe you'll also call me in one of the rough times. Sure. There'll be many.
Yeah. You know, there's one expression. Nobody gets her alone.
Nobody gets her alone.
And anybody who thinks that they got their alone is delusional and kidding
themselves. And they will at some point wake up and realize, Oh,
there were a lot of people helped me get here. I need to write a couple of.
Gratitude letters. I got a gratitude letter the other day from.
A friend of mine who I helped. And I was one of the, you know,
about these gratitude letters people are writing.
It turns out Martin Seligman and, um, uh,
with an authentic happiness. Anyway,
the guy who really studied happiness and joy,
it turns out one of the greatest amplifiers of joy in your life is to thank
somebody for doing something for you.
And somebody who had helped just wrote me a letter.
And I got in Christmas and I had the stack of Christmas cards and I hadn't
opened them. And it's the second week of January.
And I was just getting to like the last stack and I opened it up and I almost
missed it. This is incredibly heartwarming letter about how meaningful,
like certain things I had done to help along the way and how he'd always,
always appreciated my counsel. And I was just like, well,
this happened 25 years ago.
And you wrote this letter now and it just hit me like a ton of bricks.
I was just like, wow. You know, if you're hearing this,
there's probably 10 people who were really instrumental in your lives and your
lives, go ahead and call them on the phone, write them an email, or even better,
just write a letter and send it to them and just tell them you're thankful.
And let me tell you something,
the amplification of joy in your life will go a hundred X, a hundred X.
When you tell somebody you love them and that you really appreciate them and
that what they did for you was magical. So just then you can look it up.
Gratitude. Gratitude is like one of these incredible forces. Amen. I'm grateful.
I'm good.
Wasted all this time.